We're talking to Alan Driven at the University of Texas.
He's a professor in the Department of English.
I just need this for the tape.
Who is working on a biography of Harry Ransom to be titled Harry Hunt Ransom, colon?
No, Harry Hunt Ransom and the Humanities, a university, colon, a university life.
Do you have a publisher for this?
A tentative contract with the University of Texas.
I began my scholarly career
preparing an annotated catalog of Mark Clinton's reading and dropped by the University of Virginia.
They urged me to call Seawater Parrot.
I couldn't believe that he could just call him up like that.
But he called him up and he came rattling down in a car I don't recall being very impressive looking and said, oh yeah, I think I've got some twain here somewhere.
I pitched around in the backseat and got a box out, and it had, oh, I remember there's been a dozen or fifteen books from our son's library heavily annotated, some that were very important.
I didn't mean to give these to the library only.
I just might as well walk them in now.
I think it may have been one of the reasons the library was interested in contacting him, because it might remind him that he had these around.
He was just as affable and approachable as possible and wanted to be terribly helpful to my project.
And then he got in his car and took off, and I took the books into the library and used them, and I guess left them there for the library to accession.
So I really consider him like an aid of people.
Now, in the field of twain studies, as far as I know, there are only a couple of large
collectors now, and none of them are multi-millionaires.
There are some millionaires who have bought some plain things, but have not restricted as far as I know their collection.
High-classes of electricity.
Clint Eastwood's producer, Robert David, for example, has picked up a few months later, but he buys rather, it seems to me, almost on hand, and he'll pass up perfectly nice items.
But Nick Karanovich, of Fort Wayne, Indiana, probably is the largest holding.
Karanovich with a K?
Yes.
A-R-A-N-O-V-I-C-H.
Exactly.
Yes.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
He's, I believe, a middle school, might be an elementary school or a middle school.
Really?
But he's just, he got in it early.
He's worked at it very diligently.
And he is rather learned.
I've published a number of articles recently on Mark Twain, and he's got a big exhibit coming out at the middle of, because I'm going to the middle, so I think I did take a little probably, and me and I gave him, and he's preparing it.
I don't know exactly the month.
He kind of called me a few months ago to see him, right?
He's here to write the catalog, whatever they're preparing for it.
Is he in the phone book, correct?
Will I be able to find him?
I would think so.
I mean, he's not at all a type of, you know, specific figure.
There's one fellow here in Austin, probably his question is not extensive enough, but in a book that he's,
probably the second or third ranking of my 20 collector.
He's a very book dealer named Kevin MacDonald, M-A-C-D-O-N-N-E-L-L.
He's the guy we called on Christmas morning one year to buy a book from.
He's tremendously knowledgeable.
I think Kevin is just one of the reasons I've enjoyed living around him.
I just depend on him.
You cannot stump Kevin on American literature.
You can ask him anything.
and he will know down to the smallest detail.
That's interesting because he sells Mark Twain.
He lists Mark Twain.
Yeah, but he may be assured that he already has a copy.
Yeah, but I mean, that's very unusual to have a dealer who collects some of it that he sells.
Well, it makes him very knowledgeable about it.
His catalog descriptions are like reading a fine scholarly article.
Of course, he lists a lot of other things, too.
and even does some work in British, but primarily American.
He has his books out at his house, which are west of Austin, and are very lovely.
Kind of like, what's that from in western Massachusetts?
Howard Mott has this huge three-story home, and by appointment we walk in,
The books are in the bedroom and everywhere.
You're telling me about somebody I don't know, by the way, Howard Mott?
Howard Mott, yes, and his son has gradually taken over the firm as Howard Page's Rusty Mott, and Howard's wife is... What's the firm?
What do they do?
It's called Howard Mott Books, and it specializes an Americana.
It's a wonderful firm.
Southwestern there?
Mm-hmm.
It's a nice little jog over there to...
Who did your Mark Twain book?
My book was called Mark Twain's Library, a Reconstruction, and it came out in 1980.
Two volumes, G.K.
Hall.
It didn't stay in print very long.
It sold out within 16 months, and their decision was not to reprint it because it was so expensive.
It was two volumes, and I don't know if you remember, but right around 79 or 80, the IRS
They made a ruling that publishers were responsible for inventory in the warehouse.
That was a terrible rule.
They got suddenly nervous by having this two-volume, thousand-page book.
It's become quite a collective item itself.
It's sometimes listed in their book catalogs, and I, along with everyone else, always tries to get another copy of it.
Yeah, well, I'll keep my eyes open.
I'm sure Harvard has a set.
I haven't done a lot of my research at writing.
Thankfully, the institution is so close to us, and I haven't been there once or twice a week, so I'll just go on that list.
Well, which brings us, I guess, to Harry Lantz, and why are you doing it with Harry Lantz?
This book is the first book that has ever been written about a UT administrator, and really, I think that's probably the...
the thing that interested the university most in my project.
Was this generated by you, or was it proposed to you?
Well, the chancellor of the University of Texas System had been looking for some years for someone interested in undertaking something like this.
He had been the secretary of the Air Force working here, and he's been one of the top people at NASA.
He is a firm believer that institutions should have heroes, or rather institutions do have heroes, and those heroes should be somehow permanently memorialized in more than just a sketch or a statue or a painting, which there are a number of periodonties around the campus.
When he got here, he was rather surprised
no one who contributed to the shaping of the university in a large way had ever been written about.
And inquired around and I think his notice landed on me because I was one of the people who came here because of this library.
I came here in 1974.
I had actually visited the campus in 1970 as part of my
for my doctoral dissertation on Twain's library and reading.
We used to do that right now at the University of California at Berkeley.
I was Henry Nash Smith next to the last doctoral dissertation student at the University of California Berkeley.
Smith was then just preeminent in the study of Mark Twain and I was very fortunate to be able to work on
But I came here in 1970, in the middle of a very, I remember, sweltering, swelter in the hot July period, and I still liked very much the place and the library, and when I got an opportunity to join the Faculty Union, I figured to do it.
Jobs were not too plentiful in 1974.
Actually, I was lucky enough to get a number of offers, but Texas was far more than that later.
When I came here, I actually only laid eyes on Harry Ransom once as he was walking across campus and I said, that's Harry Ransom.
And then he passed away several years after I came here and died.
But I'd always been very interested and even read what I could.
And the chancellor spoke with me and indicated his wish that something would be done toward the audience.
And the chancellor made arrangements so that I was able to address a group of people who were more than
It's a group of very devoted individuals.
Actually, the group was organized by Harry Lansom.
And sometime after that, one individual in particular came forward and offered to substandard my research, and now I've been at it for more than half a year.
How far along are you?
Well, I'm about two-thirds through the research and about two-thirds through the interviews, probably.
I've not started writing yet, but I don't know.
I think I can start writing, but perhaps even at this moment .
It's kind of awkward, though, isn't it, to be on the faculty and be writing a book for the University Prep?
And I guess it's being funded by a member of the Chancellor's Council now?
Do you feel that in any way that this kind of restricts the freedom that you might have in doing a critical work?
Well, both the chancellor and the benefactor were quite emphatic that no strings were being put on this, that they wanted, they're more interested in having the book and that it be a good book and a readable book than having you write a saint's life.
Not that I'm suggesting whether there's anything... It naturally occurred to me that the circumstances were not what most scholars are used to, that is, applying to a foundation or the National Endowment for Humanities or some such organization for funds.
Still, we have a very devoted group of alumni.
They remember Ransom very fondly, and it wasn't just this one individual, but several others have also contributed so that I feel as though I'm kind of a trustee of these funds here.
I try to use them as well as I can, try not to raise any unnecessary expenses.
But there is a lot of work to be done.
You see, Ransom got into administration fairly early, became an associate dean, for example.
And from then on, in other words, for, let's see, between 20 years, virtually every scrap of paper that he ever wrote or typed as an officer at university did.
The materials over in the Barker, Texas History Center on the west edge of campus, excuse me, on the east edge of campus, occupied when I started with 52 file doors and cabinets and
almost 20 feet of vertical space on shells.
And today, for example, I've been over there going through Ransom's effort to deal with the first waves of the student dissident movement in the 1960s.
It fell to his lot through the Chancellor and the Texas League for Responsible Sexual Freedom began passing out.
youth that's advocating the abolition of all laws, restricting sexual matters, and shortly thereafter that was followed by threatened to cancel by Sophie Carmichael and the rise of SDS.
Each day of my research has a culminating point that culminated this morning in
in the SDS violation of Ransom's understanding of him and the holding of an illegal rally on campus on Sunday night to prepare for Vice President Humphrey's arrival on Monday, at which time they were going to try to harass him.
And Ransom struck him from the campus organization and cut guy.
So he began receiving this avalanche of correspondence thanking him or captivating him for his action.
And so it goes.
I mean, he then really had his initiation .
Are all these filed indexed?
Not very well.
They're often indexed by year at least.
to trace how he went about building this collection?
Actually, the materials that specifically relate to the Humanities Research Center are kept over here.
They are in a pile up on the fifth floor.
reading room called the collection, I guess it should be called the collection development file.
Are they open to scholars?
I'm sure they are.
I imagine I'm the first one to ever have shown in the entry room, but there are files in there by collector, by, and sometimes by name of the collection or by book dealer.
There are a lot of bad ends there.
One tends to forget how often you bring something almost to fruition.
There was the famous instrument of the silver collection, for example, in which everything was negotiated, the price agreed to, and one of our scholars was getting on a plane with a certified check and so forth, and they were notified that
The Newberry Library has grown very angry that this collection is going to leave Chicago, and a new arrangement hasn't worked out, and it's going to stay here.
I think, actually, for less money, it would be... The Seymour Abelman collection is supposed to come here, I guess.
Are you familiar with that?
I don't think they're really close now, and I guess, of course, he's in Great Philadelphia, so he recently died.
I just remember Philadelphia people who rose up.
It's a good line.
Sometimes these things generate outbursts of local pride.
Which is good.
Not indignation so much.
Ransom never pursued any legal action on the silver matter.
He was a little chagrined.
When was this?
in the 60s.
I can't think of more precisely right now.
I've got all the amazement.
But the point is that the book dealer did go after these people and actually collected something.
That is, he felt he was doing a commission there.
You mean the deal was done?
It was a done deal?
Yeah.
It was a done deal.
Everything had been agreed to.
I don't know that's there.
It's an interesting story.
They sent people here, I think Ransom and others had to get deposition.
They didn't have anything to do with it, but I mean, they went themselves to parties in the suit, and they were looking for his commission now.
And I mean, it's my impression that they did collect some money through the court, actually.
I was looking through the Newberry history the other day.
Have you seen that?
It's a crutch, and it's a history of the Newbury Library.
Is that a new book?
And in the back, it lists, you know, just, it's a little chronological thing that we've done, and I noticed that in subsequent years, they sold off little pieces of the silver crutch, and they knew they were trying to make facts for me.
Is this a new book on the Newbury Library?
Yes.
Something that I could call the Newbury and get a copy of?
It's maybe a year old.
I did see one in the... I brought it over and showed Tom Saleh, and he promptly ordered two or three copies of his R.C.
There's probably one that I'm going to show you.
I think one thing I'd like to mention and get on the record,
before, I forget to mention it, and that is, I think it's very interesting.
Ransom was scrupulous about not collecting any books himself.
His library is kind of dead.
He can virtually know books of any day.
In other words, he just felt that he was entrusted to these.
what amounted eventually to millions of dollars, and he could easily get misunderstood in the public mind, and so he loved greeting these arriving boxers and being around in the ropes and then so forth, and he derives me about a lot of satisfaction from the arrival, and probably he may have consoled it from them.
he did not build any competing collection of his own.
Now you find this, I find this among institutional collectors, and they are collectors.
I think one of the people who collect, say, at the Massachusetts, Steve Riley at the Massachusetts Historical Society, Red Wolf, and he had his own idea.
But the collection for the institution is basically there right there.
They see it.
They have collected for the institution, and the pleasure they get.
And that is the holdings of the other .
Well, why is it that you made a point in telling me that?
Well, I just thought it was an interesting thing.
Here is a man who loved books and denied himself that on a personal level, I think, for rather political reasons.
I think he should be struck down by lightning.
He didn't want anybody walking into that new library here and saying, I wonder how many of these should be in the HRC or something.
But you didn't have reflected a sensitivity to
to a perception of the spirit of collecting that that went on in Texas?
I think there was a precaution on his part.
He wanted to take every precaution to do that collection for the best possible meaning.
It did not stop people from talking.
Tell me what people said.
What kinds of things that people said?
Well, I guess the kindest critical things people said.
no one will own up to it that they will save it or that they will save it.
He sort of, you know, vicariously collected through the university.
In other words, he got the regents, in effect, and put the bill for a collection that he wanted to sort of save for himself.
And the fact that until they got the Senate done, and, you know, they didn't have anything like this at the time they began, he would keep the books up in his
office up in the tower, where a few on the sixteenth floor, and someone's on the fiftieth floor as well.
There'd be these stacks of boxes that you would kind of peek into the game, and the secretary would make some kind of memo on the box about what it was, and they wouldn't immediately be at session.
Well, it was a fact that at the beginning, when the, what rare books facilities there were were over in the new building, it was a fact that they came in faster than
and you could do anything about.
What many people don't understand is that library funds or university funds have to be very specially delegated for this or for that.
He had a knack right then for getting funds for acquisition.
He didn't, I think he didn't want to complicate matters by trying to get funds for accessioning and doing those things that needed to be done with his book.
And I must say that Decker Turner is a rather criticized figure.
I'm thinking about a recent Texas-Memphis story and so forth.
I think he did much to
to stop that kind of room that gave so much emphasis to the cataloging and the preservation of the holdings that I have never encountered that room anymore.
I don't know if it's abroad, I don't know if it's focused.
Well, in a tournament we coined the phrase, he didn't really appear to be called the Ransom Syndrome.
I don't remember that.
Have you ever heard that say?
No, I never have.
I've heard about everything else that Ransom said.
But at any rate, Ransom did have a lot of things sitting in boxes and crates for a while as he figured out what shape exactly the collection should take.
And of course, as you know, you probably talked to Tom Staley.
He was very
I fell into, I think, some heavy criticism by people who felt and thought almost intrinsically or impulsively.
I wasn't sure how I felt about that when I started my search, but from what I can tell from the correspondence, Branson was convinced
that he had this one window in time through which he could reach and do this thing.
He had a tremendous following among the alumni.
He had the attention, the respectful attention in the state legislature.
He had a very cooperative board of regents.
There were people in the state, and I don't think I'm overly
as we were doing it to say, we worshiped Harry Lentz, and then we had the embodiment of what the university education should be about.
He represented learning for learning's sake.
He was pure, learned wisdom, and he decided to act on those advantages in reality, and although he almost knew that it wouldn't last very long,
Excuse me, just a second.
What wouldn't last go on?
The availability of the money, the availability of the materials?
This rare coincidence of the damages that he had.
I mean, he had oil prices doing very well, and the West Texas oil lands where the University was bringing this money in, and the Regents liked him and trusted him.
And he was able to go out with those favorable conditions and the wide following that he had.
And I think I was just about ready to say that people worshipped him.
And he acted on that.
He did something with those cards that he held.
He settled them on this concept that the last thing we lacked here by entering the
the great universities rather late.
The last culminating thing that we lacked was a great research library, and he would talk about this through every forum where he was allowed, and he was a much invited speaker in those days.
Air travel, of course, wasn't as convenient as it was going on.
It was a very large state, but he did more than his share of
talking to civic and alumni groups around the state, and everywhere he would mention this, and he just sold the entire state on it, sold people.
I mean, it may sound rather normal to someone from Boston to think of telling this idea,
He sold this idea to people who made their money in oil.
He sold this idea to people who made their money in ranching.
I mean, this is not an idea you would expect to come naturally to a state that is still rough around the edges like Texas was in the 1950s.
But Texas also had a sense of destiny, too, and greatness.
And he tapped into that and wrote several essays about
what he called the counter-frontier.
He felt there was a frontier, and then there was a kind of counter-frontier that had always been here.
He's got an essay on this subject, but it was almost from the beginning.
There had been this quest for knowledge and polish and cosmopolitan attitude.
He reminded people about things that had been there all along, and fought certain stereotypes,
and convinced, in some cases, I think stereotypical individuals who recognized the value to the state of having a different image abroad.
This is a state that hadn't worked itself over much on the East or West Coast.
Before he was done, he'd been given these monies.
And so here's what he could be criticized for, I suppose.
That is, they've had to sit down,
under Decker-Turner's, but especially, I think, under Tom Staley's stewardship.
We had to sit down and figure out, now, where exactly are we going with this library?
What should be our collection development policies and so forth?
I mean, we did certain things sort of in reverse here.
Ransom went out and got a lot of books and manuscripts, and then we sat down and said, now, what do we have and what should become our strengths?
Well, Tom Staley talked very ably about this in the speech he was going to give you.
The point is, I don't hold this against Ransom.
I think he had an intuition that it would not go on forever, that he had to act as quickly as possible, and so he simply went out and bought every large collection that was available to him at the time, and he even bought on a cup, and he didn't even have the money he would buy, because he was sure he could get the money eventually.
And so this has led to some speculation.
speculations, accusations about how exactly this... Can I ask you a question?
Have you been able to document that he bought on the cuff?
Is this reflected in the files?
What kind of documents?
Well, you've probably heard of the somewhat infamous House of LDS.
That's my next question for you.
I think that Ransom had so much to do with the
the proprietor of that firm because me, David Feldman, was carrying them in the cup.
He'd carry large some.
Feldman trusted it eventually, asking them to be able to cover this.
Was there any indication that there was interest involved, too?
I don't think there was a set charge of interest, but I have no doubt that
Sometimes, Ransom may have winked at paying just a little bit more for the next acquisition, other things he told me, because he remembered how gracious Rodman had been at putting his funds and waiting for that long opinion.
A lot of Ransom's work was finished winning when he hadn't reached his hook dealership, because he was buying fast, and he was a very cumbersome apparatus
How is this documented in the files?
Are there actual agreements between the HSC and LDF?
No, I have found letters in which Feldman says, this is what I will need for this collection.
Does he also say you don't have to pay it right away?
You have a year, a few years?
It doesn't have to come out of this year's million dollars, but it could come out next year.
Well, he'll hint that he would say earlier he could be paid the better, and ransom will arrive, and say, I may have a little trouble with this, but you'll get your money.
And the next few months, my secretary always started the process of taking the money.
If I wanted to see one or two examples of this, and believe me, I don't want to see any more of them with you.
This is not my intention, but it is an interesting thing.
aspect of the story.
And you think they'd give me access to that?
I think they will.
If not, maybe Tom Staley will quote you something.
He himself has looked at these things and used them in talks.
Maybe save you some work for this.
You know, I mean, this is part of the colorful history of the building of this collection, let's face it.
And it worked.
I mean, it worked.
Look around us.
It's here.
We've got some materials that probably are not as valuable for our purposes as might be desired.
In other words, they came as part of another, as part of the larger collection.
There were things like this that I wish
the money might .
But at the same time, every time you see one of those letters from Feldman or anywhere else, you think, oh, golly, only $18,000?
What's the deal?
Like today's standards, sure.
Only $18,000.
So everything in retrospect looks like a bargain, and then
you can't always be sure that it is things we weren't interested in very much in the 1950s and 1960s, minor novelists, minor poets, and so forth.
Suddenly, the world turns around a few times, and now we're tremendously interested in obscure women writers in the late 19th century.
We're extremely interested still in one another.
So, who's to say exactly?
He just saw his
job as going out and spending that money as wisely as he could, as long as he could spend it.
And later, directors here at the HRC will not have that privilege.
I'm sure Thomas Bailey's budget is a fraction of what Ransom is reaching in today's dollars, too.
In today's dollars, but Ransom just seemed to know that let's get this job done, let's get a lot of
items in the collection, they would attract a lot of people here.
And see, it was what brought me here originally and got me interested in joining the faculty, and there must be a number of other stories like mine.
And my life as a scholar has been immensely enriched here by the casual visitors who come through to use the collections.
There was a visitor here not long ago,
Louisiana and using some Edgar Allan Poe materials.
I have friends who come over from Texas and they'll use the collection and just see and talk to them.
Often we arrange it so that while these business scholars from Rhode Island or California are here, we have to deliver a talk to the U.S.
campus, so I'm glad someone's right.
The vision's held.
this did make us a part of the larger scholarly world.
People are willing to pay expensive airfares and hotels to come here in more of the least excessive space.
We couldn't get a direct FOIA.
Well, what I meant was you don't just stop in Texas on your way somewhere else.
It's not really on anybody's way anywhere else.
It's an exhibition here in Maryland, Texas.
If you've got the world's best collection of G.H.
Lawrence materials or the finest collection
of a place like George Bernard and Shaw, the people that are going to come from London.
Well, I've mentioned this about three times today, but I've been kind of mildly amused to hear British accents all over the place.
What do I want to study for countrymen?
I have to travel across the big pond and come to Texas.
I think it was in England where
the resentment began to build against Texas as a result of a number of large purchases.
I think it may be there where the label, the Grand Inquisitor, began to be applied to Harry Gramsci.
And it was something that kind of clung to him and was often used, and rather almost proudly, in some of the newspaper editorials that celebrated his accomplishments.
Others weren't so kind that they just stopped with the label
There grew up a fear that Texas kind of represented a rapacious and wealthy United States that was going to harvest all these cultural icons and take them out of Europe and England.
And Ransom began, toward the end of his career, to have to deal with some of the fallout from his
He never, it seems to me, compared to today's public relations average, he never went to great lengths to announce and publicize these acquisitions in ways you see that might alarm or cause jealousy among the institutions.
But they began to be talked about among their book dealers, and obviously if you bid at an auction,
Here's a piece you might be able to help me out.
This was in the New York Times, January 1, 1973.
And this appears to be the first profile of the New York Times.
I went through the Times Index, and finally the first time you find Harry Reitings under any details in this piece.
And the occasion for this was the university's purchase of the
the letters of the Mexican emperor Ferdinand and his Empress Carlaca, he wouldn't really say how Dr. Ransom got the letters widely coveted in Europe as well as North America.
It's not exactly clear.
Dr. Ransom is guided about revealing his methods of knowing when and where rare books and papers will become available.
We learn that the Belgian royal family was about to release the letters and an alumnus got an option to stop the Ransom's explanation.
The existence of these letters was not commonly known.
I mean, this kind of adds to the mythology that does
build up, and this is 783.
How did you get built, by the way?
Have you been able to set that out?
No, I really don't know.
Do you think that would be in the file?
No, that would be in the file.
What file do you think that would be in?
You could probably look there.
I think after 17 years, we could just .
I would think someone like Henry Henderson could help you find a file called Maximilian Collection.
It would be nice.
It would be interesting.
This was the occasion for the first big New York Times piece.
And they really started to talk about the browsing that was going on internationally.
I think Ransom and the subsequent HRC directors were a little appalled at the backlash of the experience from all this.
That is, they felt it was hardly fair to complain about them.
They hadn't had the funds and the history to develop
one of the great collections of the Romantic and Victorian period, or certainly not the Middle Ages or Renaissance.
But here they had gone out after what was available, late 19th century, primarily the 20th century works, and they had done it with resourcefulness and some imagination in trying to obtain the author's working notes
and so forth.
And for this, they were now being lambasted by various book dealers, those book dealers who didn't get the commissions, by various libraries who were second-best bids, and increasingly by academic scholars, newspaper commentators, and so forth.
I'll read you another paragraph.
As long ago as 1960, only two years after he set about to upgrade the research files at the University of Texas Library, Dr. Ransom began to anger collectors who are used to getting private libraries and collections of papers for small sums.
As Dr. Ratcham said, the University of Texas did not have the drawing power of Harvard or Yale, and if it was to get materials, it had to buy them.
But to anger, and this is the Times talking in 1973.
I guess this kind of, they give a figure, by the way, since 1958, this is 73, he has added 45 million worth of papers and books and materials to the center, 30 million coming from gifts, so that would be 15 million
which was appropriate.
Do you have a feel at all for how much money has been satisfied?
No, I go by the same newspaper clippings you have.
I mean, I don't know that my instructor sat down and wrote a memo and said something.
I spent this amount of money.
I don't think the records are complete enough for me to try to edit that.
I'm kind of gone by these ballparks for years.
Are you familiar with this piece on the science writer?
Yeah.
I haven't seen it for a few months.
Is that basically the first one that you could find?
Yeah.
And then there were
Quite a number of the Times.
But it's interesting.
You really don't find his name even in the Times Index.
He'd been at this for 10 years before the index even recognizes his existence.
He really is.
He may be an icon in Texas, but I think his name really needs your book, is what I'm saying.
It is amazing that he hasn't really been written about
outside of Texas.
It's a known name, though.
When I tell people in California that I'm writing about Terry Langton, it may be the association of the name of his institution.
They have an idea.
They know he's—they often think of him as a librarian.
They rarely think of him in English, perhaps.
Often as a librarian, and sometimes they know he was an administrator.
He was more commonly associated with the librarian.
I'm looking at one little piece of it.
Do you have a feel for him, as a person, at this point?
Yes, I do.
Your judgment?
Do you have feelings?
Your assessment?
Very private.
I mean, it's not having a wish to function.
I think his wife is very close, and often it's all over the weekend.
They were only maybe two couples they ever regularly launched dinner with, and who would they have been?
One couple was Dr. Clarence Klein, a professor of English, long-term English chairman, and Sass Newman.
Not, um,
not by any means of wily kind of administrator.
Open.
We'll wrap this up in two minutes.
Oh, we're going to wrap.
We're going to wrap up.
Are they closing now?
Okay.
Open, generous with his time, known to almost everyone on campus, the letters of condolence when I'm going through their
between heartfelt letters and custodians.
He's on the staff.
He's all ranked, as well as librarians, scholars, and high and high to get state politics and wealth.
If I have any other questions for you, even if not tomorrow, but back in Massachusetts, is going to reach you?
Yes.
The residential member is probably the best that I know.
What would be the best time to reach you, so as not to interrupt your writing?
No, it's not a problem.
I mean, this is what I'm writing about, so we know what I'm writing.
Well, I can't tell you how much I appreciate you taking time from a project to come and help out, and this is very useful.
And maybe I can get to see just a few pieces of some of these files that you mentioned.
I hope that you can.
I think we're going to see Kathy Henderson, aren't we?
Sure.
So that's great.